docs(suspect-spans): Add documentation for suspect spans (#4455)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/performance/transaction-summary.mdx

</Note>

### Suspect Spans

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.
If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

> The transaction summary includes a list of suspect tags that corresponds to where most of the time is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. An example event is provided and will take you directly to the span in question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction summary includes a list of suspect tags that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. When you click the "Example Transaction" event, it takes you directly to the span in question.
```

> The transaction summary includes a list of suspect tags that corresponds to where most of the time is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. An example event is provided and will take you directly to the span in question.

Author: ```suggestion
The transaction summary includes a list of suspect spans that corresponds to where most of the time is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. An example event is provided and will take you directly to the span in question.
```

> The transaction summary includes a list of suspect tags that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. When you click the "Example Transaction" event, it takes you directly to the span in question.

Author: ```suggestion
The transaction summary includes a list of suspect spans that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is spent. By default, we sort spans by the total exclusive time. When you click the "Example Transaction" event, it takes you directly to the span in question.
```

The table in **All Events** tab offers a full list of transactions broken down similar to the abbreviated table in the overview. Filters are carried across from other views. You can also narrow the events down by percentile.

## Spans

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.
If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

> The **Spans** tab displays a list of suspect spans that corresponds to where most of the time is being spent. Choose from one of the metrics to identify different types of problems and filter down to the span operation you are interested in to find spans where performance problems lie. Example events are available and will take you directly to the span in question.

Reviewer: That second sentence was a bit too long so I've broken it up 

```suggestion
The "Spans" tab displays a list of suspect spans that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is being spent and can help you find spans where performance problems lie. Choose from one of several [metrics](#metrics) to sort spans and identify different types of problems. Filter spans to only see the span operation type you're interested in. When you click an "Example Transaction" event, it takes you directly to the span in question.
```

> Suspect spans are determined using a span's exclusive time rather than its duration. The exclusive time of a span is the time spent in a span excluding the time spend in any child spans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspect spans are determined using a span's exclusive time rather than its duration. The exclusive time of a span is the time spent in a span excluding the time spent in any child spans.
```

### Metrics

- **Total Exclusive Time**: The sum of the exclusive time for a span. This metric is useful to identify the span where the majority of the time is being spent.

> - **Average Count**: The average number of times a span appears in a transaction. This metric is useful to identify redundant work being done within a transaction. It is often indicative of a n + 1 problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Average Count**: The average number of times a span appears in a transaction. This metric is useful to identify redundant work being done within a transaction. It is often indicative of an n + 1 problem.
```

The table in **All Events** tab offers a full list of transactions broken down similar to the abbreviated table in the overview. Filters are carried across from other views. You can also narrow the events down by percentile.

## Spans

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.
If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

The "Spans" tab displays a list of suspect spans that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is being spent and can help you find spans where performance problems lie. Choose from one of several [metrics](#metrics) to sort spans and identify different types of problems. Filter spans to only see the span operation type you're interested in. When you click an "Example Transaction" event, it takes you directly to the span in question.

> Suspect spans are determined using a span's exclusive time rather than its duration. To calculate a span's exclusive time, take the interval of the span and subtract the intervals of any child spans. The duration of the remaining interval is the span's exclusive time.

Reviewer: I think it would be useful here to spell out the exclusive time of the span in the image below. Something like "In the example span shown below, the exclusive time is 25 ms."

Author: Good idea 👍

The table in **All Events** tab offers a full list of transactions broken down similar to the abbreviated table in the overview. Filters are carried across from other views. You can also narrow the events down by percentile.

## Spans

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.
If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

> The "Spans" tab displays a list of suspect spans that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is being spent and can help you find spans where performance problems lie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Spans" tab displays a list of suspect spans that correspond to where most of the time in a transaction is being spent, and it can help you find spans where performance problems lie.
```

- **Average Count**: The average number of times a span appears in a transaction. This metric is useful to identify redundant work being done within a transaction. It is often indicative of an n + 1 problem.
- **Total Count**: The total number of times a span appears across all transactions. This metric is useful to identify spans that appear most frequently.
- **p50 Exclusive Time**: The 50th percentile of the [exclusive time](#exclusive-time) for a span. This metric is useful to identify spans that take a long time individually.
- **p75 Exclusive Time**: The 75th percentile of the [exclusive time](#exclusive-time) for a span. This metric is useful to identify spans that take a long time individually.
- **p95 Exclusive Time**: The 95th percentile of the [exclusive time](#exclusive-time) for a span. This metric is useful to identify spans that take a long time individually.
- **p99 Exclusive Time**: The 99th percentile of the [exclusive time](#exclusive-time) for a span. This metric is useful to identify spans that take a long time individually.

### Grouping

> Spans with the same operation and description will be grouped together into a single span group. Some processing is done to group similar spans together. If you find that the span grouping is not ideal, you can change this by making sure the spans you want grouped together have the same operation and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spans with the same operation and description are grouped together into a single span group. Some processing is done to group similar spans together. If you find that the span grouping is not ideal, you can change this by making sure the spans you want grouped together have the same operation and description.
```
